the US has faced Fierce criticism for
vetoing a United Nations security
Council draft resolution that called for
an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in
the Israel Gaza War the Palestinian
president Mahmud abas has uh released a
statement this morning saying that the
veto makes the US complicit in what he
describes as war crimes against
Palestinians it says that he condemns
the American position as a flagrant
violation of all humanitarian principles
and values and he holds the US
responsible for the Bloodshed of
Palestinian children women and elderly
people in the Gaza Strip while the US
Envoy said that such a ceasefire would
be dangerous and unrealistic every other
member of the 15 member Council backed
the resolution with the exception of the
UK which abstained Israel thanked the US
and said that a ceasefire would have
given Hamas which is classed as a terror
group by many Western governments a
chance to regroup our Middle East
correspondent Hugo bashet has this
report in Gaza there's no safe place
says the UN Secretary General the Health
Care system is collapsing hospitals have
become Battlegrounds and Palestinians
have no shelter and everything else
needed to survive he says this was the
scening hunis in the South yesterday in
the aftermath of an Israeli air strike
as the military pushes ahead with its
war against
Hamas hours later at the UN in New York
the Secretary General called for a
ceasefire and had this warning there is
a high risk of the total collapse of the
humanitarian support system in Gaza
which would have devastating
consequences we anticipate that would
result in a complete breakdown of public
order and increased pressure for Mass
displacement into
Egypt I fear the consequences could be
devastating for the security of the
region but the US which is veto power
ignored his calls and voted against it
our goal should not simply be to stop
the war for today it should be to end
the war forever break the cycle of
unceasing violence and build something
stronger in Gaza and across the Middle
East so that history does not keep
repeating itself Britain abstained in
the vote every other member of the
security Council back the ceasefire we
call for further and longer pauses to
get Aid to Palestinians and allow space
for further hostage
releases but we cannot vote in favor of
a resolution which does not condemn the
atrocities Hamas committed against
innocent Israeli civilians on the 7th of
October in Gaza the situation for
civilians grows more dire by the day the
world food program is warning of
widespread famine and says nine in 10
gin are not getting enough
food our life is extremely difficult
says hassanin another displaced Gaza
resident now in Rafa there's not even
water this is what we face every day he
says as the fighting continues more
people are being killed and the
suffering of survivors is getting worse
Israel says it is taking steps to
protect C in Gaza but the world is
asking is it
enough H BBC News
Jerusalem well it's been confirmed this
morning that one of the Israeli hostages
still remaining in Gaza has been killed
um this is a picture of Saha Baruch who
was from kibuts Barry I just want to
read to you uh what his community uh
have released as a statement just in the
last few hours this morning they say
it's with great sorrow and a broken
heart that we announced the murder of
sahab Baruch 25 years old he was
kidnapped from his home on the 7th of
October by Hamas terrorists and taken to
Gaza and murdered there we share they
say in the unbearable grief of his
parents Tammy and Ronnie his brother guy
and NIV uh his family and all of his
loved ones and it also goes on to say we
will demand the return of his body as
part of any hostage release deal we
won't stop until everyone is home that's
a statement from uh kibot bear
which is the kibot where Saha Baruch 25
years old lived and has been confirmed
to have been killed in Gaza well let's
get some more reaction to that vote at
the UN Security Council last night that
we've been uh discussing throughout the
morning I spoke a little earlier to Dr
Mustafa bouti he's president of the
political party the Palestine National
initiative and I asked him about that us
veto that had been used on calls for a
ceasefire the United States of America
and Britain did not support ceasefire
means they are participating in this
crime they are covering up the terrible
crime of genocide that is happening now
in Gaza and the terrible other crime of
of of ethnic cleansing that the Israelis
are conducting against the people and a
third war crime which is collective
punishment depriving people from every
possibility of having a normal lives I
heard you the the representative of
Britain saying that she wants to condemn
the killing of Israel is fine we don't
want any Israeli or Palestinians to be
killed but why is she saying that the
killing of 32 children should be
condemned while she's not saying that
the Israeli killing of
7,500 Palestinian children should also
be condemned that is a double standard
and what happened in the Security
Council is very dangerous it sends a
very negative message to the whole world
that from now on we don't live and the
the world is not living according to
international law it's important to say
that Israel strongly refutes those
claims of genocide and ethnic cleansing
in particular um I I wanted to ask you
about specifically you touched on it
there what the US and the UK were saying
at the UN Security Council they said
that a ceasefire Now does not provide a
lasting resolution to this what is your
suggested path forward to actually make
sure that Hamas does not not provide an
ongoing threat to Israel while also
protecting Palestinian civilians in
Gaza Hamas was reacting to what Israel
was doing I'm not justifying anything
but to to think that the world history
started no no let me finish Anna let me
finish it was it was it was the these
were massacres on that day I mean you're
saying they were reacting you're saying
you're not justifying it but it is
important to say that these brutal
attacks on isra civilians and we we
should make that you should allow me to
answer you can I answer you
please can I
answer I think what is happening yeah I
am quoting Mr goes the Secretary General
of the United Nations that nobody can
doubt is a good man he said things did
not happen from a vacuum we have been
oppressed by the Israeli Israeli
occupation since 50 6
years that's Dr Mustafa bouti president
of the Palestine National initiative I
also spoke earlier on to Assaf Sharif
who's a former Consul general of Israel
in New York uh he is in Tel Aviv um and
he explained a little more about uh his
perspective on the current situation in
Gaza the problem is that we see that
even during the ceasefire and on a daily
basis that the uh trucks of food and gas
and uh uh other humanitarian Aid that
are are getting in they are not going
going to the citizens since there are no
un people in inside Gaza and the
Israelis are not controlling who gets
the food we see that the leaders of
Hamas are taking the food and all this
Aid to their people so we can bring in
as much as that's not quite correct
though is it because you you said you
just just for for for accuracy though
you said that the the UN aren't inside
Gaza but onra the UN relief and works
agency are operating inside Gaza yes and
I feel sorry for them because every day
they are get the the one that are
getting in are being robbed the trucks
are being that there's a mob running
towards this uh uh trucks of food or
humanitarian Aid and then come a truck
with the five or six or seven people of
Hamas and they're just taking everything
this is the daily basis there are a lot
of videos and you see more and more
people in Gaza are desate civilians that
we're seeing in these videos AR they I
they're definitely without a doubt
suffering and we feel I personally feel
sorry for every innocent people in Gaza
definitely but what's the solution if we
bring more Hamas will have more and then
the situation will only continue if
we'll have a ceasefire now we try that
you know this is not the first operation
since Israel evacuated from Gaza in 2006
and every two years we have two or three
years we have an operation and after two
weeks the UN said let's do a ceasefire
and it continues and you know Kamas took
costes the Israeli people but they also
took hostages uh uh some of the the
innocent citizen in Gaza offers but if
we will not put an end to the regime of
the Kamas it will just continue for two
more years so we'll have it a two weeks
stop or two years stop but it will
continue we have to get rid of this
government and make sure that the
citizens of Israel and the citizens of
Gaza will not suffer from this
Administration well let's talk to uh
Steven Erlanger who's the chief
diplomatic correspondent in Europe for
the New York Times uh thank you for
joining us here on BBC News let's talk
about the the US position first of all
because they are of course Israel's main
political and military ally but there's
been a lot of criticism about that
position that they took at the UN
Security Council last night not a
surprising one um what is your
assessment of what what the US perhaps
wants to do
next well the US would like this over
with but the US also wants a mass taken
out of power in Gaza so the US has given
Israel time but the is ticking Israel
has urged um sorry the US has urged is
Israel very strongly to let more Aid
into Gaza uh the slaughter going on
hurts Israel's reputation it hurts the
United States reputation but for Hamas
to win it only needs to survive in power
and no one really wants that to happen
to be honest not the people of Gaza I
assure you cuz I've spent a lot of time
there not the Saudis not the jordanians
not the Palestinian Authority not Israel
not America but to defeat Hamas you have
to defeat them ceasefire would simply
stop the fighting and it would it would
leave Hamas in place that's the argument
that's the American argument so Biden is
giving Israel time but the time is not
unlimited and they have urged Israel
very openly including from vice
president to be much more careful about
civilian death at casualties to use uh
less bombs and smaller bombs uh to
really bring this to a halt but they're
not going to let a ceasefire stop it in
the
middle the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin was speaking just the day before
yesterday and talking about the gap
between Israel's stated intent to
protect civilians but the the reality of
what was happening on the ground and the
fact that he he felt the need to say
that publicly does that suggest that he
doesn't think Israel is listening to
what he's saying either publicly or
privately I think that's an issue I mean
the Americans and Israelis are talking
every day almost um about all this but
Israel has its own national interests
and at some point is going to do what it
thinks it needs to do I mean it's
listening to the United States it's
listening to Britain it's listening to
Germany but it doesn't always agree it's
the same with the with the desired end
State the Americans want a two-state
solution they want the Palestinian
Authority to somehow take over power in
Gaza BB Netanyahu says no way but for
that to happen you need a new Israeli
government you need a new Palestinian
government and you need the hostilities
to end there's a long way to go I'm
afraid and Stephen for how long do you
think that that Israel will continue to
get partic particularly us backing when
you touched on this to to continue this
military operation as the number of
Palestinian deaths and and injuries
continues to climb that that there will
surely be some sort of of cut off date
for that backing won't there well it's
flexible but I I would think it's more a
matter of two weeks I don't think it'll
be much more than that I don't think
it'll be even another
month St eringer thank you uh for
joining us from the uh New York Times